---
title: My Fault
date: 2023-07-13 12:00:00 +1030
categories: [psychology]
tags: [neurodivergency, ]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---


Just recently I had a quite in depth conversation with a friend , and I have come to great realisation of the mindset of the modern human and why it has become the slow burn of destruction within humanity. The majority of my insight was derived from our conversation regarding faults and what faults mean to oneself. In my case mainly due to my ambition I am very critical about my faults as I truly and honestly want to improve to pursuit what I find meaningful. Even though I consciously know that every fault that I hold is not solved due to my ego and lack of discipline, I am well aware of the beast that is my ego and slowly I am tracking and hunting it down, but for my friend none of this is the case. Such friend is what one would call a quite insecure and anxious teenager, everyday comparing oneself with world, yet I believe I have found the root of both the problem and the catalyst. 

Three main issues “The Ideology”, “The Label” and “The Ego”. I shall start with the the ideology , I believe that many teenagers such as my friend have this ideology that faults are ok, which I should specify they are, but the issue arises in which faults are so accepted to a degree in which faults deplete into charterable traits. “It is not a fault it is simply who you are” they say. Now this does 2 things, firstly it makes it seem that due to how ingrained your fault is within who you are as a person it appear borderline impossible to change or fix such fault. Secondly such ideology accepts faults in a way in which you shouldn't fix such faults as they are nothing bad. Admittedly faults are what make us human and fundamentally nothing is perfect simply to the instability of its own definition. Yet when you are indoctrinated with the idea that not only can you not solve your faults but they are perfectly fine, no progress will every be made development will plateau and motivation will plummet, no progress needs to be made on a person who is perfect in there own special way. 

This comes to “The label”, at this point faults are least obvious to the self and most obvious to the world, it becomes apparent that something is dearly wrong. It cannot be what you do or how you consciously or subconsciously think as that would mean its fundamentally a fixable fault, but then What is it? Well whatever you have, looks like something we already know of the teenage trifecta, Anxiety, Depression and ADHD. You are nervous about talking to people? Its not you its Social anxiety, here is some Xanax or Valium. You cant focus and always go on your phone? Its not you its ADHD, here is some Adderall and Pharmaceutical Amphetamines. You feel disappointed and sad because I waste so much time on superficial things? Its not you its Depression, here is some Zoloft. Why simply identify symptoms and deal with them internally through behaviour change, lets instead make a label. The reality of life is that there are very very few people who are depressed that have responsibilities and take care of them. If that is the world, their own room, their health or even their friends. We are all bound by responsibilities, that's what makes us feel useful and what makes us content. No man has ever died happy when he didn't become who he could have been. 

The catalyst, “The media”, if you were a teenager constantly comparing yourself to others and see people on social media with everything you don’t have, the success, the money and the fame and with that the absence of flaws that surrounds it. Not only can you not fix your flaws, but everybody else seems to not have such flaws. You have disadvantageous flaws that you simply cannot fix, now who wouldn't be depressed. Now there are holes in your self esteem that nothing seems to fill, no drug nor media substitutes, the solution, Ego. Ego fills in the gaps that nothing else does, to our monkey brains it tastes like confidence but is formed within a vacuum of insecurity. Ego falls when subconscious is not looking while confidence is as eternal as life itself. For a long time you loose touch with reality and live a life of illusion, but now as you become more aware your ego begins fall and reality brands you like the scalding hot iron it is. What to do?, Where to go?


Start by looking at yourself and be honest and the rest will come with time. Don't associate with social media it does more bad then good. Find something you find meaningful and pursuit it to 100%. God didn't give you the short end of the stick we all have our problems but we should all strive to be better, as that is what makes us human.