---
title: A gift
subtitle: Romanticising talent, suffering and the unfortunate
date: 2023-05-03 12:00:00 +1030
categories: [philosophy]
tags: [childhood, meaning, existentialism, nhialism, freedom]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

## The romanticisation of the worlds expectation.
As a gifted child I have always been encouraged and praised for both what I can and will do. I understood the intentions where pure and good but the tectonic perspective of expectation had manifested the personal self pressure present within my life that has led to my current state. On my 18th birthday I was told an honest and very much real statement, “Today is the day in which you no longer live for yourself but for the people around you”. Even though I very much understood what was meant, the romanticised idea permeates that both everybody around me and the universe itself expects a great repayment of what I become due to what the universe had provided. Evident in my need of paternal acceptance and honour for my father, there is so much to repay for a father that has endured, suffered and sacrificed in order for you to be where you stand. This is order of the mind and chaos of the soul, this is structure, this is systematic, this is control. One cannot risk even for good as so much is at stake. Sure I may become what was expected or envisioned by everybody around me, but only the universe and I remain dissatisfied. For what is a life of a predetermined outcome, a life of working for the perspective of others, a life of comparison, a life of lies, a life of acting like who I _should_ become not who I want to become, a life bound by synthetic responsibilities before happiness. With the presence of the internet and an access to the greatest sum of information I am entirely accountable of who I become, there is no reason that I don't satisfy the expectations of the universe. Is this a gift, a talent or simply a dept that I have to forever pay with my freedom.


## The romanticisation of the tragic misunderstood genius
There is no easy path through life but I have developed a deep frustration for the world that propagates due to the memories and feelings of the unconditional suffering as a child. Being divergent in both personality and interests never fruit a typical childhood. Misunderstood by everybody, a mask had to be carefully formulated that allowed me to maintain a certain act that appealed to the friends that I had. I became typical. Soon as a means of emotional survival I had become the parasocial jester. Entertaining but disposable. Yet a small fraction of who I was, remained in my experience with both books and the Internet, still a parasocial relationship but it often truly felt like the author has similar interests and perspectives with mine. I continue to try to bend and conform, until soon I break. Misunderstood and frustrated with the world the only people I befriend where other outcasts. I generalise and despise everybody that appears to be typical or as I derogatorily say “Basic sheep”. Yet as I begin to mature I soon realise judgment cannot be made as we all play a façade, some more then others. Being misunderstood may had been simply a mere test for the life to come. I may be a black sheep but nevertheless a sheep. I may not want to follow in their foot steps, I may not want themselves to follow in their current footsteps but you cant change where they walk, they can only observe where you walk.


## The war on perspective
Two schools of conflicting thought that eternalise both the yin and yang within my psyche. The artist and the puppet.

### The artist
The creative artist that understands to that to live is to risk it all. A man trying to be his own personal ideal. He finds beauty in the absurd chaos of life. He understands that some things are outside of his control but understands that he is responsible of the reaction to such things. He has belief in the fact that if he tries to be a constantly better person philosophically and technically he will become the person he wants to become and success will be a mere effect of his journey not the destination. He appreciates and values himself for who he is not what he can do. He understands the meaning in life is to make a difference in the world but to do so he has to make a difference in himself. He understands that the path to success is to balance all parts of life allowing focus on the things he values the most. Such focus does not have to be academic. He understands that it is much better to listen, observe and analyse then to speak. Nobody listens to the preacher, everybody listens to the practitioner. He understands that it is not awkward to pause in deep conversation and carefully think of the word necessary to articulate his thoughts.

He does not mind the occasional chaos of the mind but maintains the order of his soul.

  

The other being a puppet, a tame and systematic man bound by responsibilities and expectations. Forever living in despair based on his comparison of others. He stresses about what move will create what effect and often chokes in the instability of life. He is focused primarily on university and does not have a balanced life. He constantly compares himself to the best focused on an unrealistic person he should become rather then a refinement of himself. He tries to make a difference in the world through a literal means and feels he has to preach a message and make sure everybody knows. He gets nervous in conversation and falls to conversation inertia. He talks, does not listen and fails to learn from conversations.

He focusses on the order of his mind and smothers the cry of the chaos of his soul

  

If the only way a man can change the world is change himself, and be the practise without any preach. The man understands there is no way for a person to change if they have already actualised who they want to be and what traits they don't mind dying with.

  

### What remains

Meaning of life is to find learn and find beauty in all of the absurd aspects that revolve around life. From such observation and thought one can propose and envision a person different to themselves. A person better then themselves. Such personal ideal should not be reduced from another person as the dissimilar experience of life will never provide a holistic outcome, but a journey of obsession, comparison, insecurity and dissatisfaction. The personal ideal should be refined from oneself, something reachable yet still difficult. The journey begins when he strives for such personal ideal.